[MUSIC]
This lecture will talk about
the software side a little bit.
Specifically how the software is processed
before it's actually executed in
the micro-controller.
So key here is that the code
that you actually write isn't
literally processed by
the micro-controller.
It's not executed directly.
It has to be processed first
[COUGH] compiled or interpreted and
then it's processed.
So we'll talk about that.
Software translation.
So, in the end, a micro-controller or
CPU as we're calling right here,
micro-controller, it understands.
It doesn't understand C,
or C++, or Java, or
Python, or any of those languages
that most humans program in.
It understands its own machine language.
So take an Intel processor.
It understands Intel machine language,
X86 machine language it's called.
So different processor families
understand their own machine language.
Now, machine language is basically a set
of really small simple instructions
encoded in binary, zeroes and ones.
So if you ever look at machine code
directly, all you see are zeroes and ones,
or typically people, when they view it,
they look at it in hex editor.
So they see zeroes and
ones represented in hexadecimal.
But, it doesn't look too readable.
Basically, it's a string of characters.
Zero through nine, and a through f, right?
And you just see them in pairs.
So it's not easily readable but that's
what the machine actually executes is
this machine code, which is an encoding
of very simple instructions.
Add, subtract,
multiply very basic instructions.
Now above that [COUGH] is what's
called assembly language.
Now assembly language is basically a one
to one mapping from the machine code
that's actually executed to a pneumonic,
a simple pneumonic that a human can read.
And now, it's not easy to read, but
it's easier than the zeros and ones.
So, instead of having
a sequence of zeros and ones,
assembly code will say add R1, R2, R3.
Something like that.
So that's readable.
But still it's very low level.
These instructions are very simple.
You can't have four loops, or
any of the common constructs that
you have in programming languages.
You can't use any of that,
these are very simple instructions.
So assembly language to machine language
they are one to one mapping, right.
You have an assembly instruction,
it is exactly equal to
a machine language instruction.
So it's very simple, but
at least it's readable.
It's in some sort of English like format.
So you can write in assembly language, but
it's hard and we're certainly
not doing it in this class.
People do it sometimes for
certain purposes but
we're not doing it in this class.
What we'll work with
are high level languages,
what we'll call high level languages.
The commonly used languages of C,
C++, Java, dot dot dot.
Python, which is what we're gonna look at.
We'll focus on C, C++, and python,
but there are many high level
languages that people program in.
So these are much easier to use.
They give you the regular programming
constructs that programmers are used to.
Loop constructs, variables,
structures, objects, things like this.
So, those languages, high-level languages,
are what we are actually going to code in.
But, that's not what's actually executed.
The machine language is
what's actually executed.
So, this high-level language,
that you write in,
it has to be converted into
machine language before execution.
So all the software that you write in
a high-level language has to be translated
into machine language, into the machine
language of the micro-controller
before you can actually execute it.
So there's always that process.
You're gonna write the code,
then you're gonna do the translation and
then it gets executed.
Now there are two ways that this can go.
Depending on if it's a compiled
language or an interpretive language.
So compiled language, what happens is
compilation happens where the language,
the instructions, get translated into
machine code, before execution, one time.
And you get what's called an executable at
the end, which is basically the machine
code and plus some extra data,
but essentially machine code.
And this executable is what is
run every time you run the code.
So the compilation, the translation from
the high-level language to the machine
code happened one time before
you executed it, and then
every time you execute it after that, you
don't have to do that conversion, okay.
So compile languages include C,
C++, Java halfway.
There are other languages too
that are compiled languages.
So when we work with the arduino,
we'll be working in c++ essentially.
So that's a compiled language.
So this translation,
this compilation process, it happens once.
It realistically happens many
times because you compile it and
then you realize you had a bug,
and you fix it, compile it again.
But essentially you finish compiling
it and once you're done and
it works, then you never compile it again.
You just execute it, okay.
Now, as compared to compilation,
there's also interpretation.
So you can have an interpretative
language like Java, Basic, Visual Basic.
Python is an interpretative language,
or a scripting language but
it also interpretive language.
So in interpretive language,
what happens is the instructions,
the Python instructions I say, are
converted into machine code at runtime, so
every time you execute that code, you have
to convert the Python into machine code,
unlike the compiled language, right?
Compile language, you compiled it once and
you got the machine code, and
then every time you executed it,
you didn't have to compile again.
But with interpretive languages,
you have to compile every single time.
Or you call it an interpretation,
but its' the same thing.
You have to convert into
machine code every single time.
Now there are advantages and
disadvantages.
The disadvantages is that it's slow.
Compared to compiled code,
it's slow because you
have to do that whole conversion from
high-level to low-level every single time.
But it has a lot of advantages
because it allows you,
as a programmer,
it relieves you of certain burdens.
So certain things you, the programmer
doesn't have to think of because
the interpreter will deal with them.
So, for instance, just as an example
let's say in C, you're using a variable,
you're defining a variable,
an integer, right?
In C if you want to use an integer,
you have to declare that integer,
you have to say int X, let's say.
And you have to put that
at the top of your code so
the compiler can know he
needs an integer in x, right?
With an interpreter,
like with a Python language,
you don't have to declare x as an integer.
You can just start using
a variable called x.
And the interpreter will figure out,
oh I think this, he means for
this to be an integer.
I'll refer to this as an integer.
Or, if it sees you're using the variable
differently it'll make it a floating point
or something like that.
But that's a burden that the programmer
no longer has to deal with, right.
The interpreter at run time can
figure out what the type is
rather than you as a programmer
having to deal with it.
So interpretive languages do
have the advantages that they
are generally easier to program in,
but they are slow.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]